Every value in Rust has a data type, and Rust is a statically typed language, meaning that every variable's data type must be known at compile time.

There are two major data type subsets: `Scalar` and `Compound`.

<br><br>
# Scalar Types
A `Scalar` type is on that represents a single value. Like most other languages Rust has four major scalar types: `Integer`, `Float`, `Boolean`, and `Character`.

<br><br>
### Integers
An `Integer` is a number without a fractional component. I.e. A whole number.

The naming convention that Rust uses for integer values is `iXX` for a signed integer, and a `uXX` for an unsigned integer, used with the values of: `8`, `16`, `32`, `64`, and `128`. E.g. `i32`, `u16`, `u128`, etc...

Additionally there is one other type called `arch` whose size depends on the machine running the code. It's values are `isize` and `usize`.

There are also a few other literal that you can use to declare numbers:

| Number literal | Example  |
| - | - |
| Decimal | 98_222 |
    | Number literal   |   Example |
   |  Decimal           |  98_222 | 
   | Hex               |  0xff |
   | Octal             |  0o77 |
   | Binary            |  0b11011010 |
   | Byte (u8 only)    |  b'A' |

<br><br>
### Floating Point Numbers
Rust also has two primitive types for floats: `f32` and `f64`. Rust defaults to `f64`.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let x = 6.0; // f64
	let y: f32 = 3.0; // f32
}
```

<br><br>
### Numeric Operators
Rust supports the basic operators that you would expect

```Rust
fn main() {
	// addition
	let sum = 5 + 10;

	// subtraction
	let difference = 95.5 - 4.3;

	// multiplication
	let product = 4 * 30;

	// division
	let quotient = 56.7 / 32.2;
	let floored = 2 / 3; // Results in 0

	// remainder
	let remainder = 43 % 5;
}
```

<br><br>
### Boolean
Rust also has `Boolean` values, which are values that can be either true of false. `Booleans` are `one byte` in size.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let t = true;

	let f: bool = false;
}
```

<br><br>
### Character
`Characters` are single line alphabetic types, denotes with `''`.

```Rust
fn main() {
	let c = 'z';
	let z: char = 'ℤ'; // with explicit type annotation
	let heart_eyed_cat = '😻';
}
```

`Char` type is `four bytes` in size.

<br><br>
# Compound Types
Compound types are able to group multiple values together. Rust has two types of Compounds: `Tuples` and `Arrays`.

<br><br>
### The Tuple Type
A `tuple` is a general way of grouping variables with different types together. They are fixed in length and cannot be changed once they are created. The types contained in a tuple do not have to match.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
}
```

This `tup` variable binds all of these values to itself as one group.

To get the values out of a tuple we can use pattern matching to deconstruct it.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let tup: = (500, 6.4, 1);

	let (x, y, z) = tup;

	println!("The value of y is: {y}");
}
```

First, this program creates a tuple and binds the given values to it. Since the types are not explicitely declared, they are infered.

It then uses a pattern with the `let` keyword to deconstruct it into three separate parts.

Alternatively, we can access a tuple's elements with a `.` operator followed by the index of what we want to access.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let tup: = (500, 6.4, 1);

	let five_hundred = tup.0;

	let six_point_four = tup.1;

	let one = tup.2;
}
```

<br><br>
### The Array Type