Functions are functions are functions. Every language has functions.

A function in Rust is declared with a `fn` keyword.

Rust code uses `snake_case` as the convention for function and variable names.

```Rust
fn main(){
    another_function();
}

fn another_function(){
    println!("Hello world!");
}
```

Rust does not care where you define functions, the only thing that matters is the scope in which they are defined in. 

<br><br>
## Parameters
Function parameter definition works as such:

```Rust
fn main(){
    another_function(5);
}

fn another_function(x: i32){
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```

This function has one parameter, `x`, that is specified as an `i32` type.

<br><br>
## Statements and Expressions
Function bodies are made of statements that can optionally end in an expression.

### Statements
A `Statement` is an instruction that performs an action and `does not return a value`.

An `Expression` evaluates to a resulting value.

Here's an example of a Statement:

```Rust
fn main() {
	let y = 6;
}
```

In this function, `let y = 6` is a statement, as it does not return anything.

If we were to try something like:

```Rust
fn main() {
	let y = x = 6;
}
```

This would not work however, because due to the way that Rust works, `x = 6` is the first assignment, and is a `Statement` and thus `does not return a value`, so the `y = ` part of the expression `binds to an invalid value`, and throws a compilation error.

### Expressions
For `Expressions`, they are anything that `evaluates into a value`. This can be something like a function.

```Rust
// A function that simply returns the value "5"
fn five() -> i32 {
    5
}

fn main() {
	println!("Function 'Five' returns the value: {}", five());
}
```

Output

```
Function 'Five' returns the value: 5
```

Or a block of code

```Rust
fn main(){
    let y = {
        let x = 3;
        x + 1
    };

    println!("The value of y is: {y}");
}
```

Other

```
The value of y is: 4
```

Or a lot of other things, such as a `macro`.

In the example code above, we have the `Expression` as this block of code

```Rust
{
	let x = 3;
	x + 1
}
```

This block of code evaluates to `4`, which is then bound to `y` using the `let` keyword.

Also note that the `x + 1` does **not** have a semicolon at the end. This is because `Expressions` do not use semicolons. If you add a semicolon to an `Expression`, it will turn into a `Statement`.

<br><br>
## Functions with Return Values
Functions can also, of course, return values for other sections of code to work with. Return values do not get names in Rust, but are denoted with a `->` arrow.

```Rust
fn five() -> i32 {
    5
}

fn main(){
    let x = five();

    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```

Output

```
The value of x is: 5
```

This is because we use a function call with `five()` and assign the returned value, which is simply just the number `5`, to `x`.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let x = plus_one(5);

    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}

fn plus_one(x: i32) -> i32{
    x + 1
}
```

Output

```
The value of x is: 6
```