Now we'll cover all of the flow control options that Rust provides, such as `if` and `loop`.

## If Statements
An `if` statement is one of the most common programming concepts. It's a `conditional statement` that evaluates one of multiple ways based on boolean conditions.

Here's how they are implemented in Rust.

```Rust
fn main() {
	let number = 3;

	if number < 5 {
		println!("Condition was true");
	} else {
		println!("Condition was false");
	}
}
```

Output

```
Condition was true
```

They work the same as an `if` statement in any other language. The statement `takes a conditional expression and evaluates it` to `determine whether a path should be taken`.

## Handling Multiple Conditions with `else if`
We also have the `else if` option for `if` statements with more than `2` conditions.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let number = 6;

    if number % 4 == 0{
        println!("Number is divisible by 4");
    } else if number % 3 == 0 {
        println!("Number is divisible by 3");
    } else if number % 2 == 0 {
        println!("Number is divisible by 2")
    } else if number % 3 == 0 {
        println!("Number is not divisible by 4, 3, or 2");
    }
}
```

Output

```
Number is divisible by 3
```

This `if` statement has `4` possible branches. It evaluates them top to bottom, one by one, until a pattern is matched, at which point it will enter that path and execute the code.

## Using `if` in a `let` Statement
Because `if` is an `Expression`, we can use it on the right side of a `let` Statement to `assign the outcome as a variable`.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let condition = true;
    let number = if condition { 5 } else { 6 };

    println!("The value of number is: {number}");
}
```

Output

```
The value of number is: 5
```

In this code, the `number` variable will be `bound to the outcome` of the `if` statement.

Running the code, we see `The value of number is: 5`, which is due to `condition` being initialized as `true`. If we were to change `condition` to false, then the code would evaluate the other path and the value of `number` would be  `6`.

Remember that blocks of code evaluate all of the expressions in them. In the case above, we have two different possible paths for the code to take, and each has integer numbers `5` and `6` respectively. These values hold the same type of `i32`.  If we were to change one of them to a different type, such as a `String`, the compiler would throw an error.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let condition = true;
	let number = if condition { 5 } else { "Six" };

	println!("The value of number is: {number}");
}
```

Compiler Error

```
error[E0308]: `if` and `else` have incompatible types
--> src/main.rs:3:41
|
3 | let number = if condition { 5 } else { "Six" };
| - ^^^^^ expected integer, found `&str`
| |
| expected because of this

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0308`.
error: could not compile `playground` due to previous error
```

This code would throw a `type mismatch` error, because the first value is `i32` and the second is `String`.

## Repetition with `loop`
Rust also has the standard loops that you would expect in a programming language. It has three: `loop`, `while`, and `for`.

### Loop
The `loop` keyword executes a block of code over and over again forever until it is told to stop.

```Rust
fn main() {
	loop{
		println!("again!");
	}
}
```

Output

```
again!
again!
again!
...
```


## Breaking a `loop`
in order to break out of a `loop`, you use the `break` keyword. There is also a `continue` keyword, which tells the program to skip over any remaining code in the loop, and start again from the top of the loop.

```Rust
fn main(){
	let mut x = 0;

	loop{
		if x == 3 {
			break;
		} else {
			println!("Value of x is: {x}");
		}

		x += 1;
	}

	println!("Loop has broken");
}
```

Output

```
Value of x is: 0
Value of x is: 1
Value of x is: 2
Loop has broken
```

In the above code, we initialize `x` as `0` and then use a `loop` to increment its value by `1`. We start to loop by checking if `x == 3`, and if it does't then we print its value. When `x` DOES equal `3`, we go into that branch of the `if` statement and call the `break` keyword, which breaks us out from the loop, and then continues the program.

## Returning Values from `loop`
You may want to use a `loop` to continuously poll for something such as user input. In this case, you will want the `loop` to return a value.

To return a value in a `loop`, we can place the value we want to return after the `break` statement.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let mut counter = 0;

    let result = loop {
        counter += 1;

        if counter == 10 {
            break counter * 2;
        }
    };

    println!("The result is {result}");
}
```

Output

```
The result is 20
```

In this code segment, we declare the `counter` variable (mutable, so that its value can be changed) and then declare another variable `result` to be assigned the value of whatever the `loop` expression evaluates to.

## Loop Labels
If you have multiple loops, the `break` and `continue` keywords will apply to the innermost `loop`. Sometimes you may want to break out of a higher level loop or something similar. In this case you would use a `loop label` in order to distinguish specific loops. We declare a `loop label` with a single quote `'`.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let mut count = 5;
    
    'counting_up: loop {
        println!("count = {count}");
        let mut remaining = 10;

        loop {
            println!("remaining = {remaining}");

            if remaining == 9 {
                break;
            } if count == 2 {
                break 'counting_up;
            }
            remaining -= 1;
        }
        count += 1;
    }
    
    println!("End count = {count}");
}
```

Output
```
assdgasgasdgsd
```

This code will run two nested loops, breaking conditionally based on values that are being altered in both.

## While Loops
Sometimes you want to run a loop conditionally, until a certain condition is met or unmet. For this we use a `while` loop.
