Rust has many different rules for ownership, which are what allows it to be memory safe while also not needing a garbage collector. This chapter will dive in to this ownership, covering `Borrowing`, `Slices`, and how data itself is laid out in memory with Rust

<br><br>
## What is Ownership?
`Ownership` is a set of rules that governs how Rust manages memory in a program.

In Rust, `memory is managed through a system of ownership` with a set of rules that the compiler uses to compile them.

<br><br>
## The `Stack` and the `Heap`
In most programming languages, you `don't have to worry about the stack or heap`, but since Rust is a systems programming language, it's important to know where a value is stored because it will largely affect performance.

Here's a brief overview of the `stack` and the `heap` in Rust.

## Stack
The `stack` stores values in the order that it receives them in a `last in, first out` order. Adding data is called `pushing` to the stack and removing data is called `popping` from the stack. All data on the stack must have a known, fixed size. Data with unknown size is stored on the `heap`.

## Heap
`Pushing to the stack is faster` than allocating the `heap`, because the s`tack never has to search` for a new place to store data. It always just stores it on the top of the stack. It's also `slower to follow the pointer` to access the data in the heap as opposed to the stack, where it is just right on top.

When code calls a function, the values passed into the function along with the function's local variables are pushed onto the stack. When the function ends, these values are popped off of the stack.

<br><br>
## Ownership Rules
There are some things to keep in mind when thinking about rules of ownership in Rust
* `Each value` in Rust has an `owner`
* There can only be `one owner at a time`
* When the owner goes `out of scope`, the value will be `dropped`

<br><br>
## Variable Scope
As a first example of ownership, we'll take a look at the `scope` of some variables. The `scope` is the `range within a program for which an item is valid.`

```Rust
let s = "hello";
```

The variable `s` here refers to a string literal, which is hard coded into the text of the program to refer to it. This variable is `valid until the end of the current scope`.

```Rust
{   // s is not valid here, as it has not been declared yet
	let s = "hello";    // s is valid from this point forward

	// do stuff with s
}

// This scope is now over, and s is no longer valid
```

There are two important points in time here
* `s` comes into scope, and is valid
* `s` remains valid until it goes out of scope

<br><br>
## The `String` type
To illustrate the rules of scope, we need to use a data type that is more complex than the ones we've seen so far. The types we've used so far all have `defined sizes`, and thus can be `easily stored on the stack` for easy access. To look at how Rust stores data on the heap and cleans that data up, we can use something stored on the heap, such as a String.

Many times when using Strings, we will want them to be mutable, or even sometimes, such as when gathering input, the String may be undefined for a time.

You can create a `String` from a string literal using the `from` function.

```Rust
let s = String::from("hello");
```

The double colon `::` indicates that `from` is in the namespace of `String`.

This type of string can be mutated and changed.

```Rust
// main.rs

fn main(){
	let mut s = String::from("hello"); // Creates an initial String

	s.push_str(", world"); // Pushes a literal onto the Strig
	
	println!("{}", s); // Prints the String
}
```

Output

```
hello, world
```

The difference between the `string literal` and the `String` type is the way that they are stored in memory.

<br><br>
## Memory and Allocation
In the case of a string literal, we `know the contents at compile time`, so it can thus be stored on the `stack`. For a `String`, it is `dynamic` and is thus `stored on the Heap`.

In Rust, when a `dynamic variable is declared`, the `memory is automatically returned` once the variable that owns it goes `out of scope`.

```Rust
{
    let s = String::from("hello"); // s is valid from this point forward

    // do stuff with s
}

// The scope is now over, and s is no longer valid
```

When a variable goes `out of scope`, Rust calls a special function, `drop` which is where the author of `String` can put the code to `return the memory`.

<br><br>
## Ways That Variables and Data Interact: Move
Multiple variables can interact with the same data in different ways.

```Rust
let x = 5;
let y = x;
```

This code creates two variables, binds `5` to `x` and `y` to the value of `x` which is `5`. Since both of these data types are `known`, they are `both pushed to the stack`.

If we changed the code to

```Rust
let s1 = String::from("hello");
let s2 = s1;
```

We now have code that looks similar, but does not behave the same.

In Rust, a `String` is made up of three parts: `ptr`, `len`, and `capacity`. This data is all `stored on the Stack`.

The `ptr` is the pointer that points to the data that is `stored on the heap`. The `len` is `how much memory` the contents of the string are `currently using`. We'll get back to `capacity`.

When we says `s2 = s1`, what we are doing is `copying everything in the Stack of s1 into s2`. This means the `pointer address, len, and capacity are copied`. The actual contents of the pointer address `are not copied`. Instead what happens is that we now have `two pointers both pointing to the same place` in the heap.

When a `variable goes out of scope` in Rust, it calls the `drop` function and `cleans up the heap memory` for that variable. When both of these variables go out of scope, it would normally cause an error known as a "double free" due to it trying to free the data twice. In order to ensure memory safety then, Rust considers `s1` as `no longer active` once `s2` is assigned to it, meaning it will `not try to free anything` when `s1` goes out of scope.

If we were to try to use `s1` after `s2` was created, it would be invalid.

```Rust
// main.rs

fn main() {
	let s1 = Sting::from("hello");
	let s2 = s1;
	
	println!("{}, world!", s1);
}
```

```
error[E0433]: failed to resolve: use of undeclared type `Sting`
--> src/main.rs:4:11
|
4 | let s1 = Sting::from("hello");
| ^^^^^
| |
| use of undeclared type `Sting`
| help: a struct with a similar name exists: `String`
```

This would give an error that tells us that the value was moved, where it was moved, and what kind of error that is giving.

<br><br>
## Ways Variables and Data Interact : Clone
So when trying to copy one variable to another it gets removed, but if we do want to deep copy the heap data of String we can use a method called `clone`.

```Rust
// main.rs

fn main(){
	let s1 = String::from("hello");
	let s2 = s1.clone();
	
	println!("s1 = {}, s2 = {}", s1, s2);
}
```

Output

```
s1 = hello, s2 = hello
```

This will do the desired behavior and `deep copy the heap`.

Rust has a special annotation called the `Copy` trait that we can place on types that are stored on the stack, such as integers and other rigidly defined types.

<br><br>
## Ownership and Functions
The mechanics of passing a value to a function are similar to assigning a value to a variable. Passing a variable will `move or copy`.

```Rust
// main.rs


fn main(){
    let s = String::from("hello");  // s comes into scope

    takes_ownership(s);             // s's value moves into the funciton
                                    // and is no longer valid here

    let x = 5;                      // x comes into scope

    makes_copy(x);                  // x would move into the function
                                    // but i32 is Copy, so it's okay to
                                    // still use x after.
}

// Here x goes out of scope, then s. But s's value was moved so nothing
// special happens

fn takes_ownership(some_string: String){ // some_string comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_string);
} // Here, some_string goes out of scope and 'drop' is called. The backing
// memory is freed

fn makes_copy(some_integer: i32){ // some_integer comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_integer);
} // Here, some_integer goes out of scope. Nothing special happens

```

Output

```
hello
5
```

If we try to use `s` after `takes_ownership`, Rust would throw a compile error.

<br><br>
## Return Values and Scope
Returning values can also `transfer ownership`.

```Rust
fn main(){
    let s1 = gives_ownership(); // gives_ownership moves its return value
                                // into s1
    
    let s2 = String::from("hello"); // s2 comes into scope

    let s3 = takes_and_gives_back(s2);  // s2 is moved into takes_and...
                                        // which also moves its return value
                                        // into s3
} // Here, s3 goes out of scope and is dropped. s2 was moved, so nothing
// happens. s1 goes out of scope and is dropped

fn gives_ownership() -> String { // gives_ownership will move its return
                                // value into the function that calls it

    let some_string = String::from("yours"); // some_string enters scope

    some_string // some_string is returned and moves to the calling function
}

// This function takes a String and returns one
fn takes_and_gives_back(a_string: String) -> String { // a_string comes into
                                                        // scope

    a_string    // a_string is returned and moves out to the calling function
}
```

The ownership of a variable follows the same pattern every time: Assigning a value to another variable moves it.

When a data that includes data on the heap goes out of scope, it is `dropped` and the value will be cleaned up unless ownership has been moved.

<br><br>
# Question 1
Determine whether the program will pass the compiler. If it passes, write the expected output.

```Rust
fn add_suffix(mut s: String){
    s.push_str(" world");
}

fn main(){
    let s = String::from("hello");
    add_suffix(s);
    println!("{s}");
}
```

##### Answer
This program does `not compile`. The string `s` is moved into `add_suffix` after calling it, so it cannot be used later.

<br><br>
# Question 2
What is the maximum number of times a heap allocation could occur in the following program? Write your answer using digits, like `1` or `2`.

```Rust
fn print(s: String) {
    println!("{s}");
}

fn main() {
    let s = String::from("Hello");
    print(s.clone());
    print(s);
}
```

##### Answer
This will have `2` heap allocations. First, the call to `String::from` causes an initial heap allocation. Then the call `s.clone()` does a `deep copy` that uses a `second heap allocation`. Moving a String does not cause a heap allocation.

<br><br>
# Question 3
Determine whether the program will pass the compiler. If it passes, write the expected output.

```Rust
fn main() {
    let s = String::from("hello");
    let s2;
    let b = false;
    if b {
        s2 = s;
    }
    println!("{s}");
}
```

It does `not compile`.